# 3/22/2017 Meeting--Lori Fox Allen & Dalton Craven

## How to Raise Money

### Restaurant Fundraisers

See [`fundraising/fundraising-ideas.md`](../fundraising-ideas.md).

### Summer Camp!

We could run a summer camp for kids interested in coding!

##### Pros

- Tons of money
  - Speech & Debate does this and earns enough to pay for travel costs.
- Adds credibility to Hack Club
  - Makes us more trustworthy--might lead to additional donations from parents.
- [Resources available](https://github.com/hackclub/camp)
  - Hack Club ran "Hack Camp" for two years (2015/2016), we can use & adapt their stuff for our own club. They had ten days of coding, we can pick the best lessons for a smaller camp.
- Potential Recruitment
  - If any people come in that are interested & coming into high school, we can snag them early.

##### Cons

- Logistics
  - None of us have run a summer camp before--we'd have to rely heavily on administration for things like waivers, legal liability, etc.
- Costs
  - We have to reimburse MHS for building rental, cleaning, HVAC, etc. However, those costs will be more than covered by the class fees.

### After-School Enrichment

We talked about running an after-school program for kids. All fees for the program would go back into Hack Club. This is basically a scaled-down version of summer camp--see the pros/cons above.

### Tutoring

We can offer computer (or programming) tutoring for a small fee. We have people in almost every subject of computers, so we have a wide range of talents available.

---

## How to Manage Money

We have these fat stacks--what now?

### Earning our Money

##### Fundraising and Donations

The companies who write a check send it directly to Student Activities, who adds it to our district account. We can also give cash to Student Activities from our LAN parties or other events, and she'll add it.

##### Web Development Studio

There is no predicate for hiring a student-run club to design something for a company. The only similar thing is the Mason Design Studio, but they are not compensated in cash. As such, before we had any meetings with developers, Student Activities wants to sit down with us and the district treasurer to square away what exactly we need to do. However, she said that she thought it would be a good idea, and this would provide the most amount of money for us.

### Storing our Money

To store our money, we must use a district account. Whenever we get money from a fundraising source, we give the check to Student Activities. They add the money to our district account (we're under the ACM account, with our own separate ledger). She also updates an excel spreadsheet with our cash. We as a club need to keep our own spreadsheet, and periodically compare with hers to resolve discrepancies.

### Spending our Money

To spend our money, we have to put in a "purchase order" with Student Activities. Once requested, it usually takes around one week to go through. We have the option of placing a rush order, or, if it's extremely urgent, we can purchase it & request an invoice to pay ourselves back. Additionally, Student Activities has a credit card we can use.

##### Compensation

If we use a district account for our money, we aren't allowed to keep part of it for ourselves. We have to deposit the full check to Student Activities. Although this would be fine for most fundraising (we don't need to compensate ourselves for percent of sale fundraising or a LAN party), this is slightly concerning for the Web Dev studio. We have two options. Firstly, we could form a development company separate from the school-managed Hack Club, and donate money (like Cengage does). However, that would entitle setting up and managing a LLC, requiring us to file taxes and everything on our own. If we want to stay completely in the school, we might be able to hire ourselves as contractors and pay ourselves what we think our time was worth. Before we do that, however, we have to meet with the district treasurer & make sure that's allowed.
